Our topic is payment protection patterns.
We are going to look at three different patterns that you can
employ in your code to protect financial transactions.
The first one is called Checks-Effects-Interaction.
The second one is called Rate Limiting,
and the third one is called Re-entrancy Guard.
In prior lessons, you've written code and seen where there are hack attempts etc.
on Smart Contract Code that causes funds to be drained.
These three patterns are important because they will help you create
robust code that is impervious to attacks such as those that we've discussed before.
Let's start with Checks-Effects and Interaction.
So this is a standard approach to ensuring that when your function code executes,
it does that in a safe manner which prevents
malicious actors from launching re-entrancy and other attacks on your code.
If you look at the code snippet on this slide here,
you will see that it has the possible offer,
possibility of a re-entrancy attack.
In fact, this exact same code has appeared in a prior lesson.
This is the canonical pattern that you will
see in contracts that a subject to re-entrancy,
and we want to make sure that we don't repeat this kind of code.
So how do you protect against it?
Well, the simple answer is to think of it in three parts.
First, check that all the conditions
that are required for your function to execute safely are met,
and also ensure that any arguments that are passed
into the function are within the valid range.
Once you've done that,
either your function proceeds or because of the require statements,
it fails and the transaction is immediately terminated.
If the function continues,
it's now time to change the state variables.
So any variable that whose value would be changed as part of this function,
this is where you would make that change.
That's the effect part.
So after checking the arguments and the conditions,
you change the state of the contract, cause and effect.
Then finally, this is the point where you interact with any external contracts.
The reason you want to do that last is because it ensures that if
those contracts have any malicious code that calls back etc.,
they will not be able to do it based on an unchanged state variable.
For example, if you are supposed to send
funds to an external contract or an external entity,
the state will already have been
changed in a manner to indicate that those funds are depleted.
They've been debited from the account.
Therefore, even if there is a re-entrancy attack,
it will result in no funds being drained.
So that's the checks-effects and interaction pattern.
Let's take a quiz.
What is the correct order of
operations based on the checks-effects and interactions patterns?
Our choices have code,
you need to pick the code option that
best matches the checks-effects and interactions pattern.